Over 2000 years ago, the tears of sentient beings
fell
on the full moon night of the second month. The
Tathagata entered Nirvana in the
Sala tree, living a long life.
Who will guide us so that we may know where to take refuge
when he has passed away? Tathagata,
please show me
where I can take refuge,
and the tears have stopped flowing. The
Tathagata's words are divine:
Take the precepts
as your teacher,
let them be your lamp, practice from the past,
day and night, without hesitation. Loving the wounds of suffering will surely free us from all pain. What words did the Tathagata instruct in the last wind? Take the precepts as your teacher, use the Dharma as your lamp, from within yourself, day and night, loving the body
will transcend the cycle of rebirth.
[Music] Reverend
Buddha, our benevolent Father, we have come here with many sorrowful emotions in our hearts.
[Music] We grieve for ourselves because of our evil karma, born in a time when we could not meet the Buddha. [Music]
We often wonder why the
Buddha is so rarely present in this world. The
Buddha's presence
brings happiness to countless beings.
From countless eons ago, we
must have accumulated deep evil karma.  We have not
been able to see the Buddha, we have
not been able to see the 32 auspicious marks and 80
beautiful features of the Buddha
[music].
We
see ourselves as
truly wicked, lacking in merit and good fortune.
If the Buddha were to manifest here,
we would surely not be able to bear the
sight of the Buddha entering Nirvana.
We
contemplate that when the Buddha enters Nirvana,
all the gods, spirits, and demons will roll their heads,
weep, and
faint.
Because the
Buddha always brings the greatest peace to all living beings. The
Buddha cares for us, cares for all living beings in
every little detail,
every word, every gesture, every action. The
Buddha teaches us
what to think about, what to worry about, what to say, what to do, and what not to
think about,
say, or do.
From countless eons, we have
never experienced such rare happiness,
never been taught like this,
never been cared for like this.
We are
born in this Age of Decline and
only see the compassion of the Buddha
through the scriptures
and his teachings.
We, your disciples, have only been able to see the Buddha's words
a little, little by little, and
we are already immensely happy.
If we could have the Buddha
present in our lives,
we think that
perhaps seeing the Buddha
would make us much more diligent.
But perhaps, in many lifetimes,
we have created too much evil karma and have
not had enough opportunity to see the Buddha here
today, in this place where he is entering Nirvana.
We can only admire the
Buddha's form through the image,
we can only admire the
Buddha's physical body through the image.
We feel sorrow for ourselves.
We contemplate that if the
Buddha were in his true form here,
perhaps we would not be able to bear it.
We know that the Buddha's power is
immense;
he attained
Nirvana, but his power does
not disappear.
If anyone wholeheartedly practices, there will be a
manifestation to bless and guide
us. We are ignorant and do
not know, do not think that the Buddha is
still present. The
Buddha is always present.
If anyone clings to form, then
there is the image, the physical body, the relics. If anyone...  Having attained
enlightenment, we know that the Buddha is present throughout
this void.
We remember that even
in prison, we
turned to the Buddha to seek his guidance, and the
Buddha knew everything. The
Buddha used his power to preach the
Dharma and save Vaide. When
we recite the sutras like this,
we also believe that wherever we are,
free from the desire for diligent effort, the
Buddha knows our power and
can guide us.
But we are foolish; sometimes we
don't think of this. Only
when we see the Buddha's form do
we know it is the Buddha.
Today, we have come here and
must ask the Buddha to bless
us. We are lacking in merit and have
not been able to see the Buddha's physical form.
Therefore, please guide us so that we may
practice the Buddha's teachings
left for all beings. We ask the Buddha to help
us
so that we may not be able to walk on
the path that the Buddha has always wished for all beings.
The Buddha taught that "I am a Buddha, I have attained Buddhahood," and "
all beings are Buddhas."
That saying, that teaching, the golden words
of the Buddha, if those who
have complete faith in the Buddha
will diligently practice.
Although we are ignorant, we also
believe it. But because of
greed, we do not
practice the Buddha's teachings.
We humbly beseech the Buddha to support
us so that we may be
diligent and practice the
Buddha's last teachings.
Today, we sincerely and earnestly pray to the Buddha to bless
us so that we may become
disciples of the Buddha,
following the Buddha's vows.
From ignorance and delusion,
we have also made the Bodhisattva vow. Some of
us Buddhists understand,
comprehend, and are diligently practicing to seek
Supreme Enlightenment. We ask the Buddha to guide and
support the
Buddhists who have made the vow, who have truly
felt the precious Dharma. We humbly beseech the
Buddha to guide
us.
[Music]